---
title: frog.dev
cover_image: /img/frog.png
author: Jake Nielson
description: A deep dive into the design and development of this site - frog.dev!
date: Oct 23, 2022
publishOn: 2022-10-23T20:00:00
tags: ["frog.dev", "listed"]
---
## Frog with a Blog

Here it is, [frog.dev](/)! I've been working on this blog for a few weeks now, and I'm excited to finally publish my first article. If you're reading this, thanks for stopping by! The rest of this article is a breakdown of how I built this site, from my initial ideas to the hands-on coding to the final deployment. If you're interested in building something like this, keep reading!

### Design

Before I break open an IDE and start coding, I have to think about what I'm making. Sometimes it's fun to figure it out along the way. However, for me this inevitably ends in re-starting from scratch when I do figure it out. I want to *finish* this project.

To start, I'll keep things simple - a client-only application that I can throw onto a file hosting service and connect to a domain. I want a home page to customize and drive visitors to the content I want them to see. I need an easy way to write and publish articles to the blog, and an intuitive way for people to find articles. Finally, I should have an about page to tell people who I am, and some links to my projects and social media. A navigation bar to tie everything together wouldn't hurt, so let's throw that in too.

### Technologies

Now that I have a general idea of what I want to make, I need to pick some tools that fit the job. There are plenty of tools out there for building websites, but two I've used throughout my career are Vue and Nuxt. They are powerful, flexible frameworks for building all sorts of web applications. Vue provides the viewmodel that links the data layer and the visual layer, and Nuxt builds on top of that with all kinds of best-in-class features for modern web app development.

There is a Nuxt module I am curious about that would be perfect for this project - <a href="https://content.nuxtjs.org/" target="_blank">Nuxt Content</a>. This module lets you integrate markdown files into Nuxt with a flexible query system, automatic SEO optimization, and other cool features like syntax highlighting. It happens to be compatible with the up-and-coming version of Nuxt, <a href="https://v3.nuxtjs.org/" target="_blank">Nuxt 3</a>, so I can use this as an opportunity to get up to speed with what's coming next.

I need a reasonable solution for hosting and delivering my website's static files. I love AI generated art, and I want to use a variety of high-quality images throughout my blog and home page. If I want to do that without slowing down my site, I need a good CDN. <a href="https://bunny.net/" target="_blank">bunny.net</a> has great pricing and features like image optimization, video streaming, and load balancing. I'll check it out for this project. It's always a risk to use something new, but I can swap it out later if I don't like it.

### Breaking Ground

With some technologies picked out, it's time to build! To start, I'm going to follow the installation instructions from the <a href="https://content.nuxtjs.org/" target="_blank">Nuxt Content</a> website. Nuxt Content informs how the project is structured and has an impact from the very start of the project, so I think it's a good idea to follow their lead here.

I'll create a fresh Nuxt Content project with the following command.

```shell
npx nuxi init frog-dev -t content
```

Keep reading to continue following the development of [frog.dev](/)!