---
title: frog.dev
cover_image: /img/frog.png
author: Jake Nielson
description: A deep dive into the design and development of this site - frog.dev!
date: Oct 28, 2022
publishOn: 2022-10-27T20:00:00
tags: ["frog.dev"]
---
## Project Structure

On this page I'll break down the high-level structure of the project. I like to figure out what that looks like before I start writing code. This is a content-first project, so let's start with the content.

### Content

The `/content` directory contains markdown files that represent all of the content on my site. Nuxt Content provides a `queryContent()` function to query these files in my Nuxt app and a `<ContentDoc />` component to render that content.

I know I want to write articles for the site, but I also know that's not the only content I need. I have an about page, and I might want other pages in the future. With this in mind I created a `/content/blog` folder for my articles and a `/content/about.md` file for my about page, creating a pattern for future content if I want to expand.

This is a long article. We're already on page 2. Imagine if this whole thing was on one page! The monolith! Well, that's a problem I discovered while writing - if I want to go into any kind of depth, I should split an article into multiple pages. To accomplish this, each article is actually a folder of `.md` files.

```shell
/blog/frog-dev/1.md
/blog/frog-dev/2.md
/blog/frog-dev/3.md
```

### Pages

In the `/pages` directory I created the following Vue files.

```shell
/pages/index.vue
/pages/about.vue
/pages/blog/index.vue
/pages/blog/[...slug].vue
```

These represent the home page, about page, article list page, and article pages. Nuxt reads the names of these files and creates a route for each of them (e.g. `pages/about.vue` is served at `/about`). The `[...slug]` syntax in the last file matches all routes in the `/blog` path, and all files in my `/content/blog` folder.

### Layout

Some content lives on all of my pages, like the site title and navigation header. I don't want to have to import that into all of my page files. Nuxt agrees, and provides the `/layouts` directory for this purpose. Files in this directory are called Layout components, and they wrap some or all of the pages in the app.

For now I just need one layout to wrap all of my pages, so I'll create a default layout at `layouts/index.vue`.

### Components

One of the great things about frameworks like Vue is the component pattern. A component is a self-contained block of HTML, CSS and JavaScript that can be imported and used throughout the app. I'll do my best to break down my pages into logical components and re-use them where they are needed.

These components live in the `/components` directory.

### Assets

The `/assets` directory contains files which Nuxt's build tool, Vite, will process and make available to the app at runtime. This is useful for things like global CSS files. I like [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/), so I'll create a `/assets/main.scss` file to hold my global CSS and a `/assets/variables.scss` file for my global CSS variables.

In order to use these in my project I need to install `sass` and `sass-loader`, then add the following to the `nuxt.config.ts` file.

```js
css: [
  'assets/css/main.scss',
  '@fortawesome/fontawesome-svg-core/styles.css'
],
vite: {
  css: {
    preprocessorOptions: {
      scss: {
        additionalData: '@import "assets/css/variables.scss";'
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Public

The `/public` folder contains files I want to be accessible to the client after the project has been built. For this project, I put the favicon here.

With the project structure covered I'm ready to build some components - starting with the header!