---
title: Unreal Engine Devlog
cover_image: /img/mannequins.jpg
author: Jake Nielson
description: Follow the development of a board party game in Unreal Engine 5.
date: Aug 17, 2023
publishOn: 2023-08-21T00:00:00
tags: ["sb"]
---
## What am I building?

One of the hardest parts of a project is getting started. Very quickly I remembered why cracking open the editor isn't the right place to start. Jamming out code is a fun way to figure things out, but I've found planning work ahead of time reduces mental overhead in the long run. I spend less time worrying about what I'll be doing next and more time focused on what I'm working on. I closed the editor and visualized the first chips I'd make in this block of marble.

I have a weekly Dungeons & Dragons game I play with my friends online, and we often play party-style games to cool down after a session. I think making a game with this specific audience in mind is a good foundational idea. Online multiplayer is ambituous for my first project, but far from unachievable. The games we like to play are often made by indie teams and solo developers, after all.

When I closed my eyes, I saw all kinds of features involving dungeons, monsters, mini-bosses, loot, unlockable characters - nothing relevant to me at this stage of development. They're fun ideas, so I made sure to write them down to revisit later. However, to break ground I first needed to break this game into its fundamentals and look at the very basics.

The game board seemed as good a place as any to start. But what is a "game board" - what are the fundamental features comprising that idea? To start, I would need a large, flat plane. I could add more dimension in the future, but for now a flat board would be good enough. That plane will have a series of game spaces on it, forming a path with branches for the players to navigate. Speaking of players, they might each have a character on the board that represents them. These characters could roll dice, move a number of spaces on the board, then pass turn to the next player.

I was already getting out of the scope by talking about dice rolling, so I cut it there. 