---
title: Unreal Engine Devlog
cover_image: /img/mannequins.jpg
author: Jake Nielson
description: Follow the development of a board party game in Unreal Engine 5.
date: Aug 17, 2023
publishOn: 2023-08-21T00:00:00
tags: ["sb"]
---
## Moving the Pieces

### Movement

The CheckCurrentSpaceAndMove function was named after what I want it to do - check the current space for a neighbor and move the character to that space. First, it checks if the active character has been set. It then needs to know how many spaces the character should to move. This should be handled by the result of the die roll, but I hadn't implemented that yet. For now I set a hard value of 3 SpacesToMove on the GameCharacter class and read that value in CheckCurrentSpaceAndMove. Next, I had to look at the space the character was standing on and find the next space to move to.

So far I had been primarily working in the Player Controller class, which did not yet have a reference to the Board Space class. The Player Controller talks to the Game Character, and the Game Character keeps track of which space it's on. Instead of exposing the Game Characters' Board Space to the Player Controller, which would require importing the Board Space header file in two places, I wrote a function on the Game Character class to return the number of "next" spaces connected to the current Game Space. If this value is 0, the character is stuck and the turn ends. This should never happen, but it's technically possible so I'd better cover it. If the value is 1, there is just one space to move to and I call the yet-to-be-implemented MoveToPreviewSpace on the GameCharacter. If the value is 2 or more, the character has reached an intersection. I planned to implement the intersection logic later, so for now I just called MoveToPreviewSpace for this use case as well.

```cpp
void ASBPlayerController::CheckCurrentSpaceAndMove()
{
  if (!ActiveCharacter) return EndTurn();
  if (!ActiveCharacter->HasSpacesToMove()) return EndTurn();

  const int32 NumOfNextSpaces = ActiveCharacter->GetNumOfNextSpaces();
  if (NumOfNextSpaces <= 0)
  {
     // You are stuck! End the turn!
     EndTurn();
     return;
  }

  if (NumOfNextSpaces > 1)
  {
     // You are at an intersection! Choose a direction!
     ActiveCharacter->MoveToPreviewSpace();
     return;
  }

  // Continue moving!
  ActiveCharacter->MoveToPreviewSpace();
  InputEnabled = false;
}
```

While In was inside Board Space, I created a new variable called Preview Space. This will track which space the player is "previewing", which will come into play soon when I get to intersections. I created a getter that returns this space or the first space in NextSpaces if Preview Space is null.

Back in my Game Character class, I use the reference to the current board space to call GetPreviewSpace, which returns the next space the character should move to. I then use the character's AI controller to move to that space's location. To clean things up and prepare for the next move, the character's current space is reset and the number of spaces is decremented by 1.

```cpp
void AGameCharacter::MoveToPreviewSpace()
{
  if (!CurrentSpace) return;
  if (ABoardSpace* PreviewSpace = CurrentSpace->GetPreviewSpace())
  {
     CurrentSpace->ClearPreviewSpace();
     MoveToSpace(PreviewSpace);
  }
}

void AGameCharacter::MoveToSpace(ABoardSpace* NewSpace)
{
  if (!NewSpace) return;
  if (ACharacterController* CharacterController = Cast<ACharacterController>(GetController()))
  {
     CharacterController->MoveToLocation(NewSpace->GetActorLocation(), -1, false);
     CurrentSpace = NewSpace;
     DecrementSpacesToMove();
  }
}
```

### Movement Complete Delegate

Now the character could move from one space to the next. However, how would I give control back to the Player Controller so I could continue the loop and check the next board space? One way to bind a callback function from one class to another is with a delegate. The best way to explain how this works is just to walk through how I did it.

First, I created a new class based on the AAIController class called CharacterController, then set the default AI controller of my Game Character blueprint class to CharacterController. Then in the CharacterController class I overrode the OnMoveCompleted function, which is fired whenever the AI controller finishes moving a character using a function like MoveToActor, which I used to move the character from one space to the next. In addition to overriding this function, I declared a delegate I can bind to from elsewhere in my project. Within the overridden function, I checked if the Result parameter was a success, then executed the delegate I assigned.

```cpp
UCLASS()
class SB_API ACharacterController : public AAIController
{
  GENERATED_BODY()

protected:
  virtual void OnMoveCompleted(FAIRequestID RequestID, const FPathFollowingResult& Result) override;

public:
  DECLARE_DELEGATE(FMoveCompletedSignature);
  FMoveCompletedSignature OnMoveCompletedDelegate;
};


void ACharacterController::OnMoveCompleted(FAIRequestID RequestID, const FPathFollowingResult& Result)
{
  Super::OnMoveCompleted(RequestID, Result);

  if (Result.IsSuccess())
  {
     OnMoveCompletedDelegate.Execute();
  }
}
```

With the delegate created and executed, I could bind the delegate to a callback function in my Player Controller. When I set my active character at the beginning of a turn, I'll unbind any currently bound delegates and rebind-them to the active character. I did this by getting the active character's controller and calling BindUObject on the controller's delegate, passing in a new OnMoveCompleted function. OnMoveCompleted just calls CheckCurrentSpaceAndMove, re-entering the movement loop.

```cpp
void ASBPlayerController::BindActiveCharacterDelegates()
{
  if (ACharacterController* CharacterController = GetCharacterController())
  {
     CharacterController->OnMoveCompletedDelegate.BindUObject(this, &ASBPlayerController::OnMoveCompleted);
  }
}
```